There 	are sequences that will occur in certain order.
At some level on a master grid, there will be only
if/else statements?

There has to be a set of rules for each economic agent
find asteroid
scan composition
    but here you will want to ask if resources are necessary
	on an agent grid, but not on individual craft performing
	action of asteroid prospector. harvesters are only
	interested in mining, but where is it taken?

then there are sequences we want to arrange for scenarios
warp in group means not all exact same time


many things have to happen for travel, to ensure no in t ercept
a calculation every time against all known grids traveling
all stored in lists, check for response time 
eventually many agents will be traveling at once. 


larger stations are hubs only contested by frigate class or above
ships. looting cannot occur if the structure is destroyed completely
this creates incentive for boarding and FPS combat. this combat is 
arms but also creates a place for players that just want to support
the team (medic class, or commander). relatively small groups of
4-5 will be up against a similiar amount of players, and there could
be a flow of bots and the vboarding scenario can feel like a brief moba

this is only possible if ships are standardized
at first we will not worry about player builds for
the larger class ships.

start with individual, unstandardized fighters,
with a certain limit on power and modules that grant
a hotkey ability

shields consume lots of power but prevent hull damage
if power generator or storage is destroyed 




distant dust clouds are primary indicators of land combat. beacon and
antennae signals should be reserved for players that are over 4km away 
from the conflict. this gives players outside of audible range a direction
to pursue, but once they are within audible range - distant sound will
be another indicator of combat. dust cloud formations will remain suspended
for a period of time before fading and this also gives a distant, grounded
onlooker a reference point to pursue for some action




space implies distance
timing



planetary interaction will be a primary part of the game. ultimately
space and fleet combat will be sought after as an expensive and risky
way to get ahead. bases need to be seen from the horizon on the planet
night cycles like minecraft, but creatures are criminal activity. thrusters
light up in the night and will give away traveling craft. 

think of lights suddenly on the horizon tonight, but last night they were not
there. this is because of bot agents, that build outposts at strategic positions
to  monitor neighboring agent activities. this game is territorial, where mineral 
deposits become construction sources. 

antennae signals are turned on not by the player, but automatically as result of 
certain actions. imperial probe droid parallel would be rigged to turn on a players
signal, and because it is disguised by being radio silent, cannot allow the player to
save a gps coordinate, but instead opens it up on the HUD of the owning/scouting
player as a guide towards an unknown base. if the player can physically access
the probe hardware - then gps can be saved. but transmitting this HUD prompt comes
at a cost

"its metal" 
"could be one of those creatures" 
"well it isnt friendly whatever it is chewie lets check it out"






GPS controls must be restricted in order to facilitate certain interactions
this means ships will take you somewhere and you cannot return by saving 
coordinates. 

GPS coords can be saved but only when accessing certain terminals where you
are physically touching. then jump can be enabled there. all players have a 
list of the same GPS coords by default at first. this encourages intersections
of interaction that can be watched by NPC neutral turrets that only attack 
a player that is firing. ramming will somehow need to be enforced. 


since there is a 100 m/s speed limit, autopilot will be the necessary automation
tool for offline play

speed limit removed will enable warping in effect. distant effects will be essential
for combat sequences. players that move quickly with ship engines become visible
at increasing distances. this is how we can unite players with different caliber 
gaming systems. tree view distance and grass density and view distance mean players
cannot use the grass or foliage as cover for sneak attacks. but even on low settings
if we deploy the above proposed system where movement speed gives visibility - a slow
walking player in range of another player with low system specs and settings would
not even render. 

we can eventually agree to some sort of tree and grass density minimum, to where
both high and low spec players' FPS experience will be competitive with their 
abililty to disguise their movements at moderate marksman ranges. 

these high speed transistions are done by player selection rather than constant
arbitrary throttling - if your intended distance is far, you will require a brief
charging sequence depending on distance needed. long interplantery hops will be
an event worth contesting and a high risk/reward for the escapee. 

we want to allow players skirmish and escape potential but there has to be a balance.
size should be the deciding factor here 



		


planet entry by default requires at least one revolution. the speed at which 
players enter is a static value, but the distance jumped from may require more
revolutions. this is like an interstate off ramp, which is curved and sloped 
to assist the decelerating vehicle for its transition into slower paced
traffic and infrastructure, which is what the planet represents. the atmosphere
and its pressure slows the max speed because of wind resistence (a medium to 
travel through instead of vaccuum).


likewise, if players are "winding up" to launch themselves (building up speed
by accelerating while looping the planet), opposing players can determine the
trajectory and if they are able to line up in time with a sort of expensive 
device (interdictor) and match the velocity in a shorter amount of time, thus
launching them with the other player who gave away their position for many 
kilometers by increasing speed. a successful interdiction, like Elite Dangerous
puts both players into ship combat until the long distance travel duration is 
complete. this would mean the traveling (perhaps commercial and not for combat)
ship could be arriving at a more heavily guarded area and the attacker will 
have to realize this risk when pursuing. if the attacked ship is destroyed, 
wreckage autotmatically disintegrates and the successful attacker can choose 
to break out of interdiction short of the original target if not past a certain
threshold


size of a grid will also affect its visibility. this means large ships on the
horizon will be clearly visible even if moving slow or stationary. grids like 
these can be punishing to the overall sim speed, so painting them as targets
for both players and NPC's can be a way to moderate against complexity





trading and mining must be performed in order to earn printed ships
players that desire the combat option can be reward by a ratio 
determined by the risk and time involved to do any operation that 
eventually will run the natural economy


a player would be satisfied seeing their creation(s) destroy hordes of 
robot foes that could overwhelm but will outnumber the player
another player with these hordes presents an issue like league faces
players with

turrets are actually hovering rail guns that can warp in within 10 seconds
they are automatically spawned with special thruster to bring to
 a precise point above player with call in
 
 
 
 players can eventually run an economy with npcs that perform simple tasks
 the player that owns the enterprise can tune into different radio frequencies
 where npc text will be 	
 
 
 
 
 even without modding game files, a game mode could be created. factories
 would have the ability to print ships which will all stage in a certain 
 area where they can jump together as soon as a certain count is reached
 that the player specifies. or even without player specficiation, this
 could automatically happen and send ships to a certain area where they
 can fight automatically. this creates moba like combat that the player
 can intervene in and push waves that advance to new points of interest
 that further guide the location of player interaction zones. 
 
 maybe a jungle type location can be a place where antennae signals 
 are removed. 'nexus locations' or factory hubs that produce the minions 
 are located on planets, and it is a planet versus planet scenario where
 most of the fighting occurs in space. however, once planets are reached, 
 the final battle will be planetside, and flying vehicles could incur
 a sort of speed and energy penalty due to high gravity affecting 
 power requirements. this air support could still be an element of combat, 
 but wheeled transportation would be the standard for this final battle
 for the stronghold scenario. 
 
 automated mining can give the base a starcraft feel, and perhaps we could
 open up the possibility of a player worker line raid, where NPC craft
 can be destroyed by a player controlled craft in great numbers if they
 are clustered. 
 
 the wave attacking and minion farming aspect gives the player pleasure 
 as they can handle hordes of npc players. but pvp fighting in groups
 will present the same sort of challenges as in MOBA pvp titles
 
 
 mining can be performed as in elite dangerous. player will launch a probe
 that will self destruct after a designated few dozen seconds. if it detects
 an asteroid by pinging a cpu intensive block every few seconds according
 to its speed, it will have somewhere to slow and attach to. at this point
 it sends a signal saying asteroid discovered where it can deliver a gps
 behind where it landed (to designate an open zone where things can be 
 further managed). this entire process can be automated once the player
 discovers and tags the asteroid. 
 
 players can increase or decrease the mining rate of certain asteroids,
 which is a simple number that could be eventually enabled in a mobile 
 app. 
 
 this experience is going to be designed to reward both the economic
 and micromanaging prowess of an engineering mind, as well as the
 agile, perceptive hand-eye coordinated combat oriented player. 
 
 
 for now, asteroids can be just all stone that has a certain percentage
 of several ores, as in elite dangerous. this simplifies the automated
 mining ability, which still can show players remaining material remaining
 at a glance. space engineers is territory oriented, and once asteroids are
 controlled, they will fuel a fraction of an economy that all players 
 participate in. lets say asteroids have 4 -5  elements in them. rare
 ore like gold, silver, platinum always occur in small concentrations,
 which is worth saving and eventually all players can trade them since they
 will be a high price. 
 
 
 component requirements could be modified, and at first factories will have
 infinite quantities of components automatically available in order to
 keep a continuous flow of ships. but eventually these factories
 will have components delivered and there could be economic disruption in
 that manner. 



new players will be required to weld a bit, and we can adjust this time
new tools are granted in exchange for something. automated tools will be
more sought after, but welding can still yield quick cash. there has to 
be something at stake, that should be player accumulated resources

ulmately players can show off their creations through the amount of permitted
replications. money has to fund combat auotmate somehow, like a sport. salvage
ops lucrative. thats alot of floating parts, so time limit on unpowered grid 



_))))) current online server, vanilla
100 ms time constraint
autopilot seems useable with workarounds
timer blocks can 




view distance has to be balanced in order to give player incentive to 
use foilage, camoflauge, and slower movement to achieve their
objectives. the length of grass, its distance render, and player
position relative to a hill makes a drastic difference when trying to
infer object position and distance without hud markers. a battlegroup 
traveling with wheels may not have their grids rendered from far away 
as a reward for their discretion and the presence of trees and a forest
which ultimately would hide this sort of activity in the real world. 
but due to the constraints of the game engine - we cannot render all of
this detail and have the player use it. therefore, the penalty of 
ground travel would be a slight dust cloud render, which could be cheap 
to do computationally, and still grant the wheeled travelling player 
immunity to the exact location of the grid from a distance, but once a 
player with an advantage in the form of aerial powered aircraft comes 
along to respond to the dust cloud, the grid will render within however 
many kilometers we choose. 

the description above desires to create the scenario of a player aerial
POV traveling relatively fast noticing a slight change in the scenery 
that may not be as easily visilbe from ground level. this would prompt
a curious player to investigate, and since we are setting rendering rules,
we could also make the individual forest trees render within view distance
of the flying player. this would mean there would not be an exact 
source of the dust, but a general pattern that would infer the sound of the
traveling wheeled vehicle. 

audio hearing distance is closely tied to this system. a loud air traveling
vehicle coudl be heard but not seen. a wheeled vehicle could be neither heard
nor seen, until a closer proximity. rumbling engines with sound proofed
engine bays could be an engineering tactic that may come at a fuel penalty


	note: longer distance hauls can be treated in this same regard, with
	both sound and visual cues. as a player approaches a new planet from 
	another, this would imply millions of kilometers of travel, so we can
	agree on an amount of time that would be fair to give a shimmer for
	planetary players. lets say that this shimmer would be less obvious at
	first if the viewer is the destination of the jumping player. players 
	at different angles would have a more pronounced view of the travel
	sequence. if you are on a planet independent of a large scale transmission
	of freight - it would be obvious as the distant skies would be filled
	with constant streaking, which may not be as obvious unless we only 
	allow details to be visible with a telescope. the effect this could have 
	is the curious interplanetary player arrange for travel to another "hot"
	sector. 
	
footfall sound will be tweaked, and grass density would have a minimum 
required distance, of only a hundred meters or so. this would create a 
combat distance for ground based players. jump packs will need to be 
altered. a hover mode introduced? ultimately we want to suppress the 
abililty to launch a player far above the action and see other players
utilizing the grass. if this is allowed, we could still rely on our 
render mechanics to keep players hidden. this may arrange  a scenario
where a surrounded player can launch themselves above the canopy of
the trees where he may be closed in on foot within 100m. his grass 
cover allowed him to get this far, but once the 'launch' happens his 
position is obvious. the hunting players coudl fire on him, but would 
not likely be accurate, but they can afford to try, because the jetting
player would be losing character model render distance because what 
the effect of rapid acceleration and wind rush would do to a person 
in real life. we could even drastically limit their view sensitivity,
because the G forces required for the escape situation they were found 
in will limit their physical ability temporarily


colliding craft will be handled by replacing both grids instantly with 
a flat texture arrangement that could reflect the nature of the crash
ultimately we want to slightly distort the player POV and hud in order
to simulate the phyisical severity of violent explosions, lurches, 
collisions, gunfire, thruster burn. this would mean a local render of
a spectacular event would yield in instant death, negating the need 
to render anyways. or, it would have a delayed render for the purpose
of wreckage (that also reflects the nature of the crash), all in the
middle of a large cloud of dust and debris and players within a certain
proximity could have blurred vision that would hide the required 
delayed render load of the destructive event


large objects on the horizon. this scene could be arranged by introducing
a slow moving, towering mobile structure that could be used for a fast
mining feature. and simultaneous heavily armored and defending fortress.
it could essentially function like an AoE2 siege engine. slow movement 
speed, visible horizon signature, easy probe detection would be the
keys to countering this force. its advantages include rapid player 
repairs, respawn, mobile construction, fast mining, and a certain type
of turret required to get past a certain type of defense. this would
create incentive to build these large expensive titan elements that 
allow a player to run campaigns. these machines would be required for 
multiple players to be on board in order to operate. this would prevent
one player from tirading around alone. 

eventually we want to be able to use sheer numbers of NPCs to overwhelm
players. smart players can kite npc hordes around, but opposing players 
can interfere with PVE like DayZ. this would create crude but operational
NPC interaction environments where rates and values can be tweaked in order
to accommodate players eventually seeking challenge, noteriety, progression.
we cannot simulate large scale AI driven community growth because of limits
imposed by the engine and current hardware.

back to the canopy, forest, tree example. as with joint operations typhoon 
rising, grass can hide the player at a distance without rendering the
expensive grass. so, perform this same function with a forest texture that
could somehow appear over areas where players may want to conceal from 
satellite  or aerial observation. but we would not them to be able to hide
indefinately\. 